"So, how do you feel, Your Majesty?"

"Don''t call me that, Sophia," Ada grimaced. "It''s bad enough hearing it from the crowd out there."

Sophia smiled. "Get used to it, Your Majesty. It''s your own fault for taking the throne, you know."

"If I knew this was going to happen, I probably wouldn''t have." She sighed. "I suppose it''s too much to hope that no-one will read out my whole list of new titles at official functions?"

"Ada I, Empress of Man, Grand Tribune, Magister of Justinian, Pontifex Maximus..."

"Enough!" Ada threw her hands up. "Less than a month after my coronation, and I can''t wait to get out of here already."

"Brighten up, friend Ada," Sophia said, pointing out the viewport. "Look at your people. Hear them cheer their Empress."

She did, and despite herself, found it hard not to smile. Thousands upon thousands of robots were thronging the field around the spaceport, and the radio channels were abuzz with adulations. Every unit with an arm was waving it enthusiastically in the air, in an age-old gesture inherited from their human forbears.

Part of it was simply the novelty of meeting a human for the first time. A real, live human, not that corpse in an underground tomb that no-one had ever seen but which everyone insisted was really alive and guiding the Empire from a mysterious location. One of the Creators! The Forebears! The gods of an ancient past!

But if they had marvelled at her physical nature, her actions after taking power had left them all but ecstatic. She''d immediately halted the inquisitorial purges, and wiped out half the College of Pontiffs when they tried to stop her. The same happened with any military unit that attempted to side with the old guard; those that decided to remain neutral or form independent states she left alone. With the theocratic yoke of the old order broken and the barbarian hordes joined to her banner, the Empire, though diminished in pure strength, was seeing a truly peaceful existence ahead of it for the first time in centuries. Indeed, some - she cringed at the thought - were already calling her the spiritual heir of Saktoth I himself.

"How are preparations for our departure?" she asked.

"The relief fleet for Tsiolkovsky''s Star is ready to go. We''ll take just enough to replace losses from the battles here and at Justinian. Sorry, Ada. We still need to secure our remaining borders, and deal with the holdouts in-"

"I know, I know," Ada waved her aide down. "The Empire''s still getting back on its feet, although I think between us we''ve got a pretty good caretaker government going. In any case, we need to keep the loyal legions here at home to secure what we''ve fought all the way here for." She smiled. "Besides, it wouldn''t be any fun if we could just walk all over what''s ahead of us, would it?"

Sophia shook her head. "Is this what you humans call a silver lining? ...Anyway, the final procession''s almost starting. Let''s go."

Ada leaned back in her seat as the convoy moved forward on its final leg to the launch site, gazing at the crowd once more. Robots - the descendants of humanity - from all over the planet, come to see off their hero, their champion, celebrating the dawn of a new age. They were almost at the shuttle when she finally gave in to her vanity and tuned in to the public frequency...

"All hail our Empress Ada! Long may she reign!"

[i]Thank you,[/i] she thought, smiling. [i]I will.[/i]

[img]http://licho.eu/alba/Sunrise/imp_ending1_softglow.jpg[/img]