"Bo-ring," Ada groaned as she leaned back in her seat.

On her display, the brilliant trails of microfusion drives danced like fireflies about the small, irregular asteroid as the probes scoured it. Mining lasers blew out chunks of rock, and robotic arms caught the fragments and fed them into an ore-processing unit. The digested metal and silicates would feed the repair drones swarming over the [i]Eden's[/i] hull, hammering out the dents and patching the breaches in the dropship's 

"You could always help out here," Sophia said.

"Really?" Ada scowled. "As I recall, the last time I tried helping you took away my controls just because I was new and rammed two probes into each other."

"You did put us twenty minutes behind schedule."

"We wouldn't even be sitting here right now if you hadn't jumped right into the path of a meteoroid stream!"

"Are you saying that you predicted this event, friend Ada?" Sophia was smiling in that infuriating sardonic way now. "If so, you were amiss in not bringing it to my attention."

Ada slumped backwards with a sigh that sounded rather like a yawn. "Alright, fine, maybe it's not your fault we're here. But at the same time, I really don't think you can't spare a handful of CPU cycles to let me play a good video game." Pleading: "Even Tic-Tac-Toe will do!"

"Shouldn't you be reviewing the system tactical information?" the AI said serenely. "That's what I keep you around for."

"Bah." Ada waved a hand dismissively. "What's the point? You said it yourself: this system was such a backwater even during the Planetwars, nobody ever bothered to install anything resembling a proper industrial base or defense network." She sniffled. "I bet the Empire's already forgotten this place even exists. We're probably the first ship here in thousands of years."

Another sigh. "What a shame. At least it'd be somewhat interesting if they came to check on us."

"Be careful with what you wish for, Ada," Sophia said, waggling a finger.

A comfortable silence settled on the cockpit, as the bots - Sophia's fingers - toiled away on the [i]Eden's[/i] repairs without complaint. "You could try being more like them," Sophia had said once; Ada had not been in the least bit amused.

Ada was starting to yawn again, when a dull warning tone sounding from her console caused her to rise. "What was that, Sophia?" she asked, even as her brain was already querying the computer.

"Interesting," Sophia muttered. "It seems the wormhole to the Alani system is becoming... unstable. The phenomenon appears to be consistent with a malfunction in the stabilizer on Pratum II, which is presently just 0.18 AU from our Trojans here."

