ÅgYou know, if theyÅfre not going to talk to us while we have a parking orbit right above their heads, theyÅfre not going to talk to us ever.Åh

The [i]Shadow of Eden[/i] was a mere 500 km from the surface of the dry, dusty planet, which no astrographer had ever thought to give a name of its own. It was known only as an extension of its star, hence Faul I. Even that much was almost certainly an afterthought, Ada felt. It wasnÅft as if the little K5 star was particularly interesting in any way.

ÅgAre they even alive down there?Åh

Sophia shrugged. ÅgDifficult to ascertain. I am detecting some power traces, suggesting that their equipment is still functional. That said, I cannot actually discern any activity going on down there. For all we know, the only intelligence down there is an automated maintenance routine.Åh

ÅgSo,Åh Ada sighed, ÅgcanÅft tell if abandoned or just antisocial, eh?Åh

She looked at the map display in front of her. ÅgDown thereÅh was what appeared to be a small observation post, on a ridge overlooking a rolling plain. The facility was ringed with light defense turrets, so at the very least this was an investment someone thought worth securing. That said, nothing moved on the paved surface, and the few buildings visible on the ground were cold to the [i]Eden[/i]Åfs thermal sensors. ÅgWhat do we do with them, then?Åh

ÅgWe could Åeport down there and make one more attempt at communication. If they still fail to respond, we may safely assume no-one is actually operating the station, in which case we take it apart and recover anything useful we find.Åh

Ada raised an eyebrow. ÅgWeÅfre looting the facility?Åh

ÅgÅeLootingÅf is such a crass term, Ada. I prefer the term Åesalvage.ÅfÅh

ÅgOkaaay,Åh Ada said slowly, giving the AI a sideways glance. ÅgDo we plan on walking away leisurely, or making off like thieves in the night?Åh

The virtual face gave her the kind look normally reserved for comedians whose jokes fall flat. ÅgIf you find this course of action ethically objectionable, Ada, might I be able to assist you in finding a different line of work?Åh

ÅgSheesh.Åh Ada shook her head. ÅgFine, fine. LetÅfs go [i]salvage[/i] that facility. Are we ready to port?Åh

ÅgYes,Åh Sophia answered, as dispassionately as ever.

ÅgWell, then,Åh Ada said serenely, leaning back into her seat. ÅgMake it so.Åh