By now Ada was used to the mostly indescribable, uniformly disconcerting sensation of a wormhole traversal, and she gave the sensor displays only a cursory glance as they emerged in the space around the K0 glow of Calvin''s Star. "Generator status, Sophia?" she murmured, almost sleepily.

"Inactive." Someone else might have added "of course" in a sarcastic or frustated tone, but Sophia wasn''t like that. "It should be on the nearby planet; twenty-seven minutes to orbit."

"Nice and short. What''s the surface like?"

A two-dimensional overhead view of the surface came up, depicting a small archipelago, and zoomed in on one of the islands. "Most of the planet is tropical to temperate, with the thick atmosphere and the extensive ocean cover helping to moderate temperature extremes. The island housing the generator appears to follow a similar pattern, but it''s still early spring in that region, and a fog bank is rolling in from the northeast."

"Too bad." She sighed. "I don''t suppose we could reschedule our vacation?"

The AI didn''t - quite - roll her eyes. "We are not here on a pleasure cruise, Ada."

"Mind your own business, Sophia. Me, I think a warm, sunny day on the beach with a good book in hand is just the thing after that last battle." She leaned back and closed her eyes, flipping through the imaginary pages.

"I had not expected classic literature to be one of your interests."

Ada gave a small shrug. "It''s awfully dated in so many ways, yeah. All the same, though, it has a certain... timeless quality, shall we say. Besides," here she grinned, "Liz Bennet is [i]awesome[/i]."

She''d settled down again, thoroughly enjoying the depictions of the protagonist verbally smacking down her insolent, can''t-take-no-for-an-answer suitor - [i]you go, sister[/i] - when the contact alarm suddenly shrieked, jerking her upright. "What is it?!"

"Unidentified dropship, circling from around the planet." Sophia''s voice tensed. "It''s the [i]Mātariśvan[/i]."

Every soldier of the old Empire knew that name, and Ada Caedmon''s muscles tensed instantly. "Incoming transmission," her aide went on, and she stabbed the accept key without a word, forcing herself not to grit her teeth as the all-too-familiar face appear before her.

"So, the overseer shows her face once more." The Promethean''s voice was utterly toneless, his expression calm as ever. "We had not anticipated meeting you here."

"It''s nice to see you too," Ada said. "Are you going to be a good boy and surrender for a change? Or will you run away again and we can play hide-and-seek across half the galaxy, just like old times?"

He stared her in the eye. "No. Your very presence here speaks to your plans, and I cannot allow them to come to pass. I came to this system to thwart them, and now I find that I was almost too late." Eyes burning, gaze piercing. "I will neither run nor hide from you, Ada Caedmon. I will face you here... and destroy you."

"Well, that''s a change," she muttered. "Very well, Promethean. You''ve been a menance to humanity long enough. It''s time that ended."

"There is a phrase you humans use. ''Field of honor.'' Today, that word will finally have a meaning." As the image vanished from her display: "I''ll be waiting."