"We want nothing to do with outsiders. Go away."

"How friendly of him," Ada muttered under her breath as she eyed the avatar on her viewscreen. The "old man" who was apparently the spokesperson for the small independent settlement on the small, cold planet of Edda beneath them stared sourly back at her, apparently demeaned by being assigned the task of talking to these foreign heathens in orbit.

"Surely your village is proud of its artefact," Sophia said. "It would bring you a great deal of fame and revenue if you were to allow others to examine such a priceless treasure."

The old man scowled. "I think not. You foreigners have no respect for our traditions and customs, and your very presence shames our community. In fact, simply speaking to you has been a contaminating experience."

"Even so-"

"Now, if there is nothing else, I must purge these memories of our encounter," he said sourly. "Please break orbit at the earliest possible opportunity. Thank you."

The face vanished with the briefest flicker, and Ada somehow managed not to snarl. "Yeesh. What crawled into his exhaust vent and died?"

"They may have their reasons," Sophia said evenly. "In any case, what should our next course of action be?"

Ada studied the hologlobe, its brilliant blue light filling the cockpit. "Well, there are supposedly two dozen other sites on the planet. I don't suppose it'd be too much to expect any of them to contain anything half as valuable as that artefact, but we might as well take a look. If it turns out all of them are dry, well, it can't be helped."

"The inhabitants may take offense at our presence on the surface," Sophia pointed out.

"Then they can go stick their heads in a snowdrift," Ada snapped. "A colony of less than a thousand intelligences doesn't get to lay claim to an entire planet. Now come on, we're wasting time up here."

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Six and a half hours later, Ada didn't even try to stifle her frustrated groan as her commander kicked aside a rock whose only crime was lying out in the open where it could be reached. "Well, if this wasn't a total waste of our time," she grumbled to no-one in particular. "All we've found is junk."

"We still have twenty-one dig sites to go," Sophia said serenely.

An audible sigh filled the chamber. "Somehow, Sophia, you manage to make that sound like a load of fun."

"It's simply a matter of practicality. If we-" Sophia began, then stopped abruptly. "...A dropship has just exited the Zelda system wormhole. It's headed for this planet."

Ada jerked upright in her seat, as years of training saw her already studying the system astrograph that her AI aide had brought up for her. "Who is it?"

"They're not transmiting an IFF signal," Sophia frowned. "That said, their emissions profile matches that of the Valhalla dropship back at Tsiolkovsky's Star."

"How long?" She could feel her knuckles tightening on the armrest, and forced herself to relax. None of the scenarios playing through her mind right now were particularly attractive. It didn't help that Edda was particularly close to the wormhole at this point in its orbit.

"Fifteen minutes for a least-time, but I doubt that's what they have in mind. Call it thirty minutes to reach orbit, though they'll be able to start 'porting down combat units about four or so minutes before that."

"And the [i]Eden[/i]? Have they spotted it yet?"

"We're still safely hidden for now. They may or may not have noticed our deployed sensors, but it doesn't really matter." Sophia paused, as a suspended visual of the enemy dropship was replaced with one of the planet. "It is unlikely they know we're here, and even if they did there are limits to how intensively they can comb the planet within the bounds of practicality. I suggest we go to ground and wait until they leave."

Ada shook her head. "No, Sophia. I want us at the settlement inside of twenty minutes." She jabbed a finger at the hologlobe. "If they know about the artefact, then it stands to reason that they're here for it, and Valhalla isn't going to take an old man's no for an answer. We need to get back there and help those people."

A human might have stared in disbelief, but Sophia simply cocked her head. "You appear to be unusually concerned about the settlement, Ada."

"Don't get me wrong, I'd love to see those arrogant, xenophobic jerks get their comeuppance." Ada gritted her teeth. "But nobody deserves to be thrown to the Vals. Besides, whatever V is looking for, it can't be good for anyone else in the galaxy. We need to stop them, Sophia."

A small expression which was almost a smile formed on the AI's virtual face. "Very well, Ada. I will have the transports prepped right away."

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ada's eyes were riveted to the topographic display, as fjords and snow-capped hills gave way to sea on the virtual scenery around them. Idly she wondered if the dropship had spotted them yet, or if their sensors were focused solely on the colony. Things could end quite badly indeed if they were expecting her and were able to get there before she did.

"Sensors confirm engagement around the settlement, Ada."

She looked up, and felt a chill in her body as dark pillars of smoke rose in the distance, clearly visible under the light of the G1 system primary. A small, peaceful village against the most vicious band of raiders known to humanity... it wouldn't even be a battle.

Unless she got there in time. She glanced at the map, their ETA displayed in bright yellow digits in a corner.

Eight minutes to go...

