The blinding flash of the wormhole transversal came and went, and Ada took a deep breath at the sight of the Throne world. Glowing blue, green and white under the light of Capital, its G2 star, even from this distance it was a sight to behold.

This was the home world, the seat of the Empire of Old Earth. Only Earth itself figured greater in the empire's spirit, and Earth was lost to the mists of time. Throne was here, always, enduring. No matter how many Emperors came or went, how many victories or defeats the Empire's legions saw on the field of battle, Throne remained, the heart of the Empire united. Not even its sacking at the hands of the Valhallans could change that fact.

[i]And yet,[/i] she thought with an inward sigh, [i]tomorrow there may not be an Empire any longer.[/i]

The last dropship and its escorts finished warping in, and she leaned back, looking away from the tactical plot, concentrating only on the starscape before her.

"Well, we're here.  Are you ready for this, Sophia?"

"Always. You, however, friend Ada, seem just a little on edge."

Ada cracked a wry grin. "Just pre-stage jitters, it's all. Though... all this time we've been travelling, I've been thinking of what to say at this moment. And now," she waved a hand at the display, "somehow... everything I had in mind seems so inadequate, somehow. Like the ramblings of a nervous kid."

She sighed. "What am I even doing here, anyway? I'm just an auxiliary from a minor Imperial world, and now, here I am, about to make history forever. It just seems so... disconcerting somehow."

"Don't say that, Ada. History, even the history of the Empire, is not just a story of thrones and heroes and great maneuvers. It's about the people on the ground and the social forces that shape them and are in turned shaped by them. And even if that's not who you - or I - am today, it's an inextricable part of us, and what brought us here."

Sophia, too, seemed to be looking out at the stars beyond. "Regardless of what choices we make today, is is that mold in which we cast the future of the galaxy."

"Thanks, Sophia," Ada returned the smile, briefly. "Alright, I think I've got my pre-battle speech worked up now."

She brought up the communications display, and the avatars of her followers filled the screen again. "Good day, everyone," she said simply, sitting up and steepling her fingers.

"We've all gone over the plan a thousand times already, and I trust each of us will play our part to the very best of our ability. I just want to say a few things."

"Some of us were around when the Empire was new, some have heard of it from histories passed down. Some remember fondly it as a force for peace and good, others detested it as an all-devouring hegemony. But whatever we think of the Empire of yesteryear, the Empire before us now is a mockery of itself, a shambling, ravenous beast that needs to be brought down. And we're going to be the ones to do it."

"Not all of us - perhaps none of us - will live to see the fruits of our labours. But whatever happens here, however the historians of tomorrow remember us, [i]we[/i] were here, and we will know that none of us gave anything less than our best for the future of the galaxy."

She looked at the faces before her, left to right. "Anyone have anything to add?" There was only silence, and she nodded. "Well then, let's be about it."