"We have a problem, Ada."

"What is it, Sophia-" Ada began, but cut the question off as the tactical display filled her view. [i]Are you sure?[/i], a less experienced commander might have demanded pointlessly upon seeing the preposterous data the ship''s computers were supplying to her. Ada Caedmon, formerly of the 13th Imperial Auxiliary Cohort, merely clenched her fists, breathing slowly, and said after a while: "Since when do Guardsmen ever leave the Core Worlds?"

"Not just a "Guardsman," Ada," Sophia said evenly, as her human companion glared at the strobing icon of the dropship in orbit around the Imperial planet of Tryphon, basking in the light of its G6 primary. The vessel''s transponder clearly identified it as the [i]Cornelia[/i]; though many other ships had borne that name, they all had one thing in common: for as long as there had been a Praetorian Guard serving the Emperor of Old Earth, they had each in turn served as the personal ship of the Prefect himself.

[i]All the more reason this stinks,[/i] Ada thought grimly. "Care to speculate on why it''s here?"

Before any reply could come, the plot flashed again, and she winced. Even a million kilometers from the planet''s surface as they were, there was no mistaking the effects of the ground-level detonation of a high-yield thermonuclear weapon.

"Dear Lord," she mumbled, staring at the readouts on her screen. "Next question, then: Who are they fighting?"

"Interesting that you should mention that," Sophia said. "It appears someone on the surface is trying to communicate with us... using a distress code, in fact."

[i]Well, what are you waiting for then? Put him on![/i], Ada started to snap, but threw the thought aside as quickly as it formed. A few quick taps on the keypad at her hand brought up the communications screen, and she examined the figure before her: a swarthy, sun-bronzed man, clad in non-descript robes, seemingly aged beyond his years. "Who are you?" he said, staring at the newcomer with a hint of trepidation.

"Name''s Ada Caedmon," she stated crisply. "Why are you fighting the Guard?"

"Caedmon? The Brigand of Tsiolkovsky''s Star?" He blinked, then shook his head. "Well, the names they choose to give you are meaningless. If anyone in the galaxy knows that, it is us."

He squared his shoulders, then continued. "I am Athenion, de facto leader of the colony of Tryphon. We... seceded from the Empire not long back, and the Guard is now here to crush what they see as a band of upstart rebels." His jaw tightened with bitterness. "Sure, face the barbarian hordes of the frontier alone and they don''t lift a finger to help you, but decide that you can do without imperial "protection" and the Praetorians themselves show up to grind you beneath their treads."

"And since I stumbled upon your little insurrection, you want my assistance," Ada said, and he nodded.

"I know you know little of us or our cause, but our backs are to the wall. If we can secure our freedom, we will find a way to repay you somehow. Please, we beseech you-"

Static flooded the screen as a second nuclear detonation went off, mere kilometers from the first. "Looks like fixed charges," Sophia commented. "At a guess, the defenders - whoever they are - are using everything they have to slow down the Guard."

"Damn." The single-word curse came out like a throwaway comment on the weather. "Is it working?"

"Temporarily, perhaps." The AI aide frowned. "Judging from the evidence of destruction on the planetary surface, however, it seems unlikely that the Imperial force can be stopped in the long term; although this appears to be a novel operation for the Guard, extrapolations from previous IVL battles suggests that the rebels have no better than one-in-three odds of surviving the next ninety-six hours." She looked squarely at Ada. "I take it you wish to intercede on their behalf."

"The enemy of my enemy..."

"...is my enemy''s enemy. No more. No less. We have yet to ascertain this Athenion''s trustworthiness. Can you be sure that this is worth the diversion of resources - or the risk?"

Ada nodded. "Maybe it is and maybe it isn''t. But if we were going to fret over every risk we encounter, we would never have ventured all the way here to begin with. Besides," she motioned with her head at the slowly-stabilizing comm display, "we could use some allies in this sector. I think this is our best shot, Sophia."

"It is as you say, friend Ada," the AI said noncomitally, then paused, cocking her head. "Another factor to consider, Ada. The [i]Cornelia[/i] is hailing us."

Ada''s face turned into something that was not - quite - a frown. "This should be good. Put them on."

A new avatar appeared on a second screen - this one bearing a woman''s face framed by chestnut brown locks. While her complexion was just slightly paler than Athenion''s, her almost silvery plate armor contrasted sharply with his simple cloth garments, and where he had a concerned look on his face, she was openly scowling.

"I take it you''re the Praetorian Prefect," Ada said calmly.

The Imperial AI glared at her with eyes of hard flint. "I am Scipio Astra, keeper and bearer of the Emperor''s will," she spoke in a tone that could have frozen helium. "Do not presume to interfere, Ada Caedmon. Turn around and flee from whence you came, heretic, and your reckoning will yet come at a later date."

Ada tilted her head. "Is that supposed to convince me to walk away?"

"SILENCE!" Astra snarled, her voice going from bitterly cold to blazing-with-fury in an instant. "Only death awaits you on Tryphon, traitor! The Emperor shall not suffer rebels and heretics to live!"

"So," Ada said after a moment, "you''ll kill me no matter what I do here." She smiled. "In that case, I think my course of action is clear enough. Good day, Prefect."

She stabbed a button on the virtual console in front of her, terminating the connection before the furious Imperial commander could launch into another tirade, and turned back to Athenion''s surprised face. "You were pretty close to the action, Commander. Can you hold out for another two hours?"

"We''ll hold out for as long as it takes for the cavalry to arrive, Lady Ada," he said, eyes brightening.

"Good." She bared her fangs. "And once we get there, our good Guardswoman is going to learn the difference between a cushy Imperial bodyguard and people who''ve been on the front lines against some of the worst enemies the Empire has ever faced."
