ÅgWhat are we looking at here?Åh

The [i]Shadow of Eden[/i] was observing a planetÅfs surface from a safe distance, as per standard operating procedure. In this case, the planet was Scheren, a once-rich garden world that had suffered a mass extinction event of the orbital-bombardment-induced variety during the Planetwars. The safe distance was 100,000 km away, next to a small, miserable chunk of rock no bigger than MarsÅf Deimos. Ada wasnÅft even quite prepared to dignify it with the title of Ågmoon.Åh

ÅgWeÅfve got sporadic fighting across this side of the planetÅfs surface. I canÅft tell who either of the combatants are without talking to them, though. WeÅfll need to get closer before I can say much more than that.Åh

ÅgAnd theyÅfll see us if we do that?Åh

ÅgActually,Åh Sophia, remarkably enough, made the explanation not sound the least bit condescending, Ågthey know exactly where we are already. ThereÅfs no way they could have missed our FTL exit or our main drives lighting off. And even running cold as we are now, someone who looks closely enough will be able to spot us easily. Mostly weÅfre just trying not to appear threatening, and to make it less likely for anyone coming in after us to notice us.Åh

ÅgRight,Åh Ada said slowly. Weakly added: ÅgI knew that, of course.Åh

ÅgAnyway,Åh Sophia went on with perfect crispness, Ågtaking a closer look might not be such a bad idea. We might be able to talk to one of the sides down there, get some idea of whatÅfs going on and maybe get some help. WeÅfre going to need to restock on metal and fuel, anyway; maybe theyÅfll be willing to trade.Åh

ÅgSo, we hail them?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs right. YouÅfre on air.Åh 

The comm antenna on the dropship began beaming microwaves across the planetÅfs surface, bearing the short message. ÅgParties on the surface of planet Scheren, Gamma Lacaille IV, this is the [i]Shadow of Eden[/i], Imperial dropship. Please respond.Åh

No answer.

ÅgParties on the surface of planet Scheren,Åh Ada repeated - but again no answer came. 

ÅgHmph,Åh Sophia snorted. ÅgNo surprise there; I can pick up their jamming all the way out here without even trying. IÅfm surprised they can hear themselves talk.Åh

Ada studied the image of the planet projected onto the wall, its continents marked with ugly grey welts where the equivalents of multi-gigaton weapons had once impacted. [i](To think... this world was beautiful once.)[/i]

ÅgWe should go down in person, in that case,Åh she said slowly. ÅgEstablish direct communications, get some help. Maybe even see if thereÅfs a way we can get them to stop fighting.Åh

ÅgI have observed,Åh Sophia commented dryly, Ågthat organics tend to display optimism in situations where it is completely unwarranted. But if you insist...Åh

The image of the planet displayed on the wall zoomed in to a small section of rocky land - an island of some sort, given the water surrounding it. ÅgWeÅfll try talking to the smaller party first. They look to be on a defensive footing, so they might be more amenable to offers of mutual assistance. The proposed LZ,Åh here the the view zoomed in closer to a small section of land, Ågis close enough to one of their force concentrations without actually being in combat range. You should be able to ask questions without getting shot at first.Åh

ÅgGood to hear.Åh

ÅgRemember,Åh Sophia cautioned, ÅgI can teleport you down onto the surface, but our Åeporter doesnÅft have the power needed to bring you back up here. If something goes wrong down there, dig in and IÅfll try to get the shuttle to extract you. Got it?Åh

ÅgGot it.Åh A smile formed on AdaÅfs face. ÅgThanks, Sophia.Åh

ÅgDonÅft mention it.Åh The corners of SophiaÅfs mouth twitched. ÅgNow, let us perform some diplomacy.Åh