"Ada."

"Hmm?" Ada didn''t even look up from the display on her console - a render of the planet they were next headed to, marked with the bright red glows indicating orbital defenses. Blue and green lines appeared and disappeared on the plot, tactical plans made, revised and discarded. It was an engrossing problem, to be sure, but it was also starting to remind her a little too much of math homework.

"We need to talk," Sophia said politely but firmly. "About where we''re going from here."

Ada let out a small sigh, dismissing the display as she turned to look at her AI aide. "This again? I thought we agreed that this was necessary to get to the Throne and getting some answers, as unsavory as it may be. Besides," - she couldn''t help but smirk, here - "I think we did a pretty good job of keeping them in line so far."

"Not that. I speak of what happens after."

"What do you mean?"

"It''s like this." She held up one finger. "We know how much the Imperials adore their Emperor, correct? Worship him, even? Consider him the centerpiece of their entire society?"

"Well." Ada looked quizzically at her. "Yes?"

A second finger came up. "And we have good reason to believe the Emperor is dead as a door hinge, and contrary to whatever the Imperial priesthood might say, he''s not coming back. Correct?"

"Um." The ex-auxiliary rubbed her face. "I''m not sure where you''re going with this."

"Tell me, friend Ada," here the fingers snapped back into a fist with their peers, "how do you think they''re going to react when you spectacularly prove that their God is dead? Rub it in their faces, even?"

Silence, for a while. Then, a muttered "Damn." Sheepishly added: "I hadn''t thought that far ahead."

Sophia''s sigh was not small in the least. It was even accompanied with a dramatic gesture of covering her eyes with her hand. "What would you do without me?" She shook her head, then resumed speaking.

"They way I see it, we have three options." The finger came up again. "One: put the system under new management." She cocked her head, her lips twitching ever so slightly. "How would you like to be Empress?"

"I - what?!" Ada stared. "Me, Empress? Have you gone nuts on me, Sophia?"

"It fits perfectly," Sophia said firmly, with just a trace of defensiveness. "It''ll give them Empire something to rally around, keep them from falling apart after we depose the current regime. If they''re going to be worshipping "the last human," it may as well be a living one." Smiling sardonically: "I know you never wanted to be a literal goddess, but I''m sure we can make one out of you with just a bit of work."

"You really think I can just waltz in and pronounce myself the new ruler of the Empire? Of a bunch of barely-hanging-together robo-communities?"

"It''s hardly going to require sweeping changes to their belief system. Not at first, anyway. It should be simple enough to make up a story about you being the true last human - which you are, so far as we know - returned to overthrow the imposter currently on the throne." The sardonic smile, again. "Or, depending on how we work the propaganda, we could even have you and him be one and the same."

"Riiiight." Ada was still staring. "And why would I agree to all this? Forgive me for saying this, but I''m not ready to settle down and become a monarch yet."

"You''ll keep the Empire stable, and in one piece. Get the chance to set things right, while keeping the peace in the meantime. Reestablish the Empire of our long-lost ideals, a country of justice and unity for all its citizens. AI, upload, and human alike - well, we haven''t found any of that last one yet, but we''ll work on it - living under a common civic banner, as we once did."

Sophia looked away, now. "Of course, we might also simply prolong rather than reverse the decay, the cancerous tyranny and crumbling edifices. Even if we do manage to fix things for a while, what happens after we''re gone? Will things just go back to everything we''ve seen on our travels here? Will someone like us just be forced to press the reset button again in a thousand years?"

"Will we?" Ada asked, uneasily.

"I don''t know." Another shake of the head. "Even if I had anywhere near enough data for that, long-range socioeconomic forecasting isn''t one of my installed modules."

"Great. I suppose you had other options in mind?"

"Indeed. The second may come across as a bit on the extreme side, but it is perhaps ironically fitting given what we''re doing to get there in the first place." The AI aide looked at her human companion seriously, squaring her shoulders. "We burn it all down to the ground - destroy the Empire as an institution."

"Whoa. That [i]is[/i] extreme." A pause. "Wait, can we actually do that? Without going around setting worlds to the torch, anyway?"

"We might be able to. Back before our stasis, I heard - second-hand only, mind - that the Imperial wormhole network can be operated remotely from the Throne. It was the key to the Empire''s strength, and the Emperor wanted it - like everything else - under his personal control." She was scowling, now. "Bunch of paranoid fools, the lot of them."

"So, we pull the switch..."

"...isolating the far-flung reaches of the Empire from each other. The very notion of a political unit spanning half the galaxy will be literally shattered, leaving a few score independent states to work matters out on their own. Or if that fails, we just turn the barbarians loose on them."

"That''s not a good outcome!"

"Perhaps not. Or maybe, as painful as it may be in the short run, unfettered liberty may prove to be better than dubious security. Self-determination for every world, free of the shackles of the Imperial hegemony, like we fought for on Tryphon."

"Or petty tribalism and jousting for power." Ada didn''t - quite - scowl, but her face was unmistakably grim. "A hundred warlords ruling in place of one."

"Indeed, that is a possibility."

"Do I really have to choose from one of these two?"

"Well." Sophia seemed to shift a bit. "There is a third option, so to speak: wash our hands of the matter."

"What, seriously?" Ada raised an eyebrow. "We walk in, turn the whole place upside down, and say, oh, by the way, your god''s a fake and any semblance of central government you had is gone. TTFN!"

"You don''t have to put it so crudely," Sophia said, glaring. "What I''m saying is, it''s not our job - or our place - to decide the Empire''s fate. They can reform and form a new government - oppressive or otherwise, religious or otherwise, centralized or otherwise. Or they can dissolve the system, whether peacefully or with violent upheaval, and send the many systems their own way. Either way, it''s their outcome, not ours."

"That doesn''t sound like the responsible thing to do."

Sophia shrugged. "It''s up to you. We''ll have many days yet before we reach the Throne world, so you''ll have time to decide on what you think will be best for the Empire. Call on me if you need someone to discuss your thoughts with, but I suggest you spend some time reflecting on it yourself first."

"And now, I shall leave you to your work."

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From this distance, the G1 primary of the Justinian system was only a moderately bright patch in the viewport, its stellar might a mere breeze compared to the lashing fury of the nearby gas giant Theodora. But the [i]Eden[/i]''s shields had been built to stand up to terajoules of gamma rays, and Ada gave silent thanks to the saints of engineering as she sat warm and safe in her command chair.

Her attention wasn''t focused on either of the two celestial titans, however, but on a modestly-sized terresterial planet that was only visible from here with the aid of a telescope. She steepled her fingers as she studied the now-familiar plot of Belisarius, home to one of the largest Imperial fleet bases during the war - and, from everything they could tell, still one of the largest shipyard and depot this side of Throne itself. Seize the ships and munitions stored here, and the road to the Emperor was wide open for them.

"So here we are again," she said whimsically. "I remember it being rather bluer, though. And greener."

"The Planetwars were not kind to the ecology of many of the Imperial worlds," Sophia said. "Entire continents were turned upside down to supply the resources needed for the war effort, or built over with factories. This was no exception."

[i]And we''re about to aggravate it some more,[/i] Ada thought morosely.

A second display came up, and she studied the faces of the five AI avatars on the split screen - three humans, a wolf, and a goat. All were amply marked with scars and other markers of violence-induced disfigurement, and the wolf and one of the humans were sporting eyepatches.

"All is in order?"

"Yes, ma''am," one of the humans answered. "In fact, my diversion appears to have been... rather more effective than anticipated. I should be able to hold for as long as necessary, however."

"Good. Dig in and stay put; the rest of us will advance on the objective."

She took a moment to glare at all of them. "Remember, stick to your assigned goals. No heroics. Any of you starts the loot and pillage routine, I''ll break you myself. See if I don''t."

"Aye-aye, ma''am," all of them responded as one. None of them doubted for a moment that she would carry out her threat. After all, each of them owed his or her current position to the fact that Ada had killed their predecessors. More than one of them had been the replacement for the replacement.

"Alright. Everyone, form on me. Sophia, get us out of this gravity well."

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The strike craft led the attack, lashing out at a foe three times their number with laser, missile and hypervelocity driver. Explosions pinpricked the skies of the planet, turrets and defense cutters blown apart even as their siblings returned fire with bloody vengeance.

It had taken most of Antikythera''s resources to muster this assault force, and even they could not realistically hope to overcome the defenses of a Core World like Belisarius. But that had never been their intent - not directly, at any rate - and they were quite sufficient for their actual, less ambitious purpose: to carve a temporary hole in the defenses. A hole big enough for four dropships and two dozen loaded assault shuttles to get through to the surface.

A task made even easier by the fact that personal survival was not a requirement.

Ada couldn''t help but wince as she watched one of the friendly cutters charging straight at a defense station two orders of magnitude more massive than itself, punching craters in the thick armor with its laser. Point defense blew off one of the small craft''s wings, then the entire port missile rack, and yet it was still sprinting forward, heedless of the danger it faced.

Then the red and blue icons converged on her plot and vanished, with just the slightest hint of the fireball that had consumed them both.

She jerked her attention back to the main strategic plot. The shuttles were already beginning re-entry, preceded by a hail of kinetic impactors, and she felt the muscles in her forearm tense as the tungsten projectiles blossomed in fire. Rock shattered, metal fractured and blew apart in huge chunks, as the dropships methodically scoured a square kilometer of all resistance.

[i]It looks so... sterile... from up here.[/i]

"It''s time, Ada," Sophia''s voice cut in. "Prepare to port."

As the five-second countdown flashed on her screen, Ada marvelled at how quiet it was. Everywhere around her, below her, was an orgy of destcution.

Three.

There was no time to think about that now. Only time for the mission ahead - and that fact was a disturbing thought in itself.

One.

[i]When this is over, I''ll-[/i]

Then, for an instant too brief to measure, she thought nothing at all.