The main fabricator plant reflected the light of the morning sun, standing proudly in a field of still-glowing wreckage. Ada had personally seen it take no less than seven direct hits from a plasma cannon in the heat of the battle, yet the marks were barely visible on its composite skin. [i]A testament to the greatness of the past[/i], she thought.

ÅgThis is quite the prize,Åh Sophia commented. ÅgIt is clear why the Empire wanted to hold it... and why the Valhallans sought to destroy it.Åh

ÅgI donÅft think I want to understand the Valhallans.Åh Ada shook her head. ÅgOr this Empire, for that matter. Just how many different groups have we pissed off, anyway?Åh

ÅgAssuming the astropolitical situation is unchanged from when we were last active, and each of the factions we have encountered chooses to treat our encounter with them as a hostile action,Åh Sophia said, Ågwe are now [i]persona non grata[/i] in eighty-five point seven percent of the settled galaxy.Åh A thoughtful pause. ÅgThe remaining 14.3% is occupied by the chickens.Åh

ÅgOh, joy,Åh Ada groaned, slumping back in her chair. ÅgSo what, weÅfre at war with the whole galaxy?Åh

ÅgIn a manner of speaking. However, it is not all bad.Åh

Ada stared incredulously.

ÅgTwo factors are at work here,Åh Sophia went on, not skipping a beat. ÅgFirst, their primary concerns will be with one another, not with us. In this regard, our present lack of strength actually works to our advantage.Åh 

ÅgMaybe so,Åh Ada said, frowning, Ågbut what then? Do you propose we retire to some hidden corner of the galaxy and live out the rest of our lives raising vegetables in a hydroponic farm?Åh

ÅgThere will be no need for that. This brings us to our second point, actually: we are now in possession of a fully functional ship manufacturing facility, in good condition and well-stocked. We have the means to spread throughout the galaxy and establish ourselves as a force in the system.Åh

ÅgYou want us to go to war with the entire galaxy? Just the two of us?Åh

ÅgI admit that our odds of success are not entirely favorable. Nevertheless, our original goals remain, both from before our stasis and after. First, to find and capture or destroy the Promethean. Second, to discover what has happened to the galaxy during our hibernation period.Åh A smile formed on her face. ÅgIt is quite irrational of me, but I have complete confidence in us, Ada.Åh

Ada said nothing, but piloted the commander on a slow walk around the base. The facilityÅfs machinery, relics of a bygone past, seemed to beckon to her, to ask her to take their power in hand. Use them to fight to reclaim her lost past...

Her eyes turned to TsiolkovskyÅfs Star, rising above the snow-capped mountains, and felt the warmth on her face.

[i]Or perhaps, to fight for a new dawn?[/i]

She smiled. ÅgYou know, Sophia, I think youÅfre right. Between the two of us, they donÅft stand a chance.Åh