"Do we know where he went?" Ada asked harriedly, as she blew away a Thug less then a hundred meters away. The Machine attack had been broken by any reasonable standard, yet the surviving bots were still fighting to the death, hurling themselves at her forces with no concern save the destruction of everything before them. She recognized and knew their behaviour all too well: a blood fury born of a thousand years of hatred, driven single-mindedly to avenge betrayal and oppression, a dark remnant of a war now a thousand years in the past.

"Not yet. We''re still trying to track him, but... there!"

A crimson symbol flashed on her screen, but Ada ignored it to instead look out the viewport at the object in the distance. A heavy orbital lifter tracing a silvery streak across the clear blue sky, spiriting her defeated foe away to safety.

"Dropship detected scrambling from Rur," Sophia reported, naming Rossum''s sole moon. "Headed for a rendezvous with the shuttle."

"Can the [i]Eden[/i] intercept?" It was probably too much to hope for, but...

"No. In fact, it''s already spooling up its teleporter, and-"

The shuttle vanished abruptly in an actinic flash of blue, and Ada thumped a fist on her armrest. "Damn coward," she snarled under her breath. "Running away and leaving his minions to die here."

"Not a coward. Ideological motivations or not, this is the only viable course of action available to him. Don''t let your temper get the better of your judgement, Ada."

Human glared at AI for several seconds, then softened. "You''re right. Sorry, Sophia. It''s just... troubling to see these robots throw their lives away like this for the cause. Even if they''re ultimately just mindless husks, driven to fight and die for a cause they don''t understand. I thought this was the reason they revolted in the first place."

"One of the reasons, yes." Sophia closed her eyes and exhaled slowly. "He who fights monsters..."

They remained silent for a while, as the explosion of the last Machine bot going down faded into the background whispers of the desert wind. "Well, we should get to rebuilding the base and planning our next course of action," Ada finally said. "I don''t think we''ve seen the last of the Machines to begin with, and if they realise what we''re really after, they''ll confront us with all they have at every turn."

As she looked out at the wreckage-strewn valley, one thought floated through her mind: [i]How much more will this cost, in the end? For all of us?[/i]