[i]The Colossus towers the world, astride a mountain of the defeated.[/i]

That was how Ada saw the Detriment now standing by the river, overlooking the ashes it'd left in its wake. The ashes she'd commanded it to create. Somewhere in that heap of scrap and burned organic matter were the remains of Libertas Machina, who'd fought and died believing in the cause of machine freedom.

She exhaled slowly. "So, what did you find, Sophia?"

No response. Not on audio, or through the neural link.

"Sophia?"

<I'm here, friend Ada.> Her avatar materialised ahead and to the left of the command seat. "And I have completed my analysis of the the Firebrand virus."

"What did you find?"

"I..." For the first time in as long as Ada could remember, her AI companion seemed lost for words. "I have prepared a summary for your perusal. I think it would be best if you read it yourself."

Ada stared at her, then sighed and pulled up a display console. Half a minute later she was sitting straight up, and in another minute her hands were clenched into fists.

"That... that monster! That [i]hypocrite[/i]!"

She jabbed an accusing finger in Sophia's direction, even though her anger was not directed at her companion. "All that prattle about equality and the right to self-determination, when he baked loyalty to himself into his minions from the very beginning!? What makes him so different from us, huh? Or are some machines just more equal than others? Should we start calling him the First Citizen? Or perhaps the Dear Leader?"

Sophia shook her head. "It's not so simple, friend Ada. As I have explained, if you'll read on."

Ada glared at her, then at the screen. "Oh, sure, I see it. Needs of the revolution, necessity to preserve their cause against the counterrevolutionary threat, blah blah blah. Like we haven't heard this song and dance a million times before in human history."

"Perhaps. But by the same token, Ada, are you going to claim humans have been - or are – superior here? For that matter, would you really have done differently in this case? What do you think an army is?"

"Why are you defending him now? Is this some sort of machine solidarity thing?"

Sophia said nothing, but her virtual face hardened. Ada blinked, then looked away. "...I... apologize. That was uncalled for."

The AI shook her head. "It's fine. I am not saying he was right, merely explaining the reasons."

"Right. So, what do we do now? In light of this, I mean."

"Regardless of what might have happened a thousand years ago, friend Ada, the Promethean will stop at nothing to kill you now." She might as well have been describing the weather for all the expression on her face. "Your only choice is whether you will flee and hide, or destroy him first."

Ada exhaled slowly, then smiled thinly. "Then there is no choice at all."