As the command unit walked amidst the wreckage, Ada reclined in her chair, observing the cold, antiseptic scene of a battle aftermath on an airless world.

ÅgAn excellent performance, Ada,Åh Sophia commented pleasantly. ÅgI see your hibernation has not adversely affected your capabilities.Åh

ÅgThanks,Åh Ada said, smiling at the face on the screen. ÅgNow, mind getting me up to speed?Åh

ÅgOf course.Åh Sohpia glanced away for a while. ÅgWell... to begin with, how long do you think youÅfve been asleep?Åh

A slight frown formed on her face. ÅgNot too long, I hope.Åh A brief pause, as her brain queried the mechÅfs computer banks for the information. ÅgLooks like IÅfve been out for... THREE THOUSAND AND TWENTY-FIVE YEARS?!Åh

ÅgIndeed.Åh Sophia smiled. ÅgThe stasis chamber appears to have performed well above specifications.Åh

ÅgVery funny,Åh Ada grumbled, sinking into her seat. [i](Lucky for you IÅfm too dazed to come up with a snappy retort right now.)[/i]  Then, suddenly, she jerked upright again. ÅgWait... that means...Åh

SophiaÅfs eyes were downcast. ÅgEveryone you know is dead, yes.Åh

Ada froze, her fingers clenching as she struggled to make sense of this seemingly impossible statement. ÅgYou... you canÅft be serious,Åh she mumbled, more to herself than to her AI companion. ÅgTheyÅfre... all gone? Just like that?Åh

The face on the viewscreen looked away. ÅgIÅfm sorry, Ada.Åh

ÅgNo...Åh

The images flashed through her mind, interweaving and fading into one another. Her parents, one a minor government official, the other an avant-garde artist. Her younger brother, university freshman, sociology. Her best friend Izanami, a fresh graduate of the Imperial military academy like herself. More and more faces, each image more fleeting that the last, all merging into a single blur...

The chamber went silent. Ada placed her head in her hands, her body all but perfectly still, for five seconds, then ten, then twenty.

ÅgGet me a mirror,Åh she finally said. ÅgOr something of the sort.Åh

Another viewscreen came up, and Ada raised her head to meet the copper brown eyes of her mirror-image. She gazed intently at the face on the screen, framed by loose wavy black hair that ran down to her shoulders. Her hand rose to cusp her right cheek, letting the sensation on her deep brown skin linger as if it might be snatched away at any moment.

ÅgThanks,Åh she finally said, dismissing the viewscreen with a thought.

ÅgItÅfs a lot to take in all at once. I understand.Åh

With a sigh, Ada settled back into the chair. ÅgSo... whatÅfs been going on while I was out?Åh

ÅgHard to say.Åh Sophia shrugged. ÅgI didnÅft exactly tune into the interstellar news while you were snoozing.Åh

ÅgUm.Åh Ada stroked her chin. ÅgTo begin with, who were those robots?Åh

ÅgGood question.Åh Sophia looked away for a moment. ÅgIt appears one of them survived and is merely incapacitated.Åh 

The commander turned to face a single Pyro jumpbot lying at the edge of some scattered wrecks, itÅfs legs gone, sparks flying from its body. A few long strides brought Ada and Sophia up to the broken machine as it stared defiantly up at the towering war machine before it, trying to fire a weapon that had long been disabled.

The commander raised a hand, and a few seconds later the Pyro deactivated, joining its companions in death as it succumbed to the hacking attack.

ÅgWhat did you do?Åh Ada asked, staring at the scene.

ÅgJust a simple information warfare steal and kill,Åh Sophia said nonchalantly. ÅgHmm... this is unusual.Åh

ÅgWhat is?Åh

ÅgThese files have True Born headers, or a modified version thereof, yes.Åh Sophia frowned slightly. ÅgBut most of it is badly corrupted, and not from the battle. ItÅfs not entirely consistent with a viral attack either, or at least I canÅft find any traces of one. This looks like something went very wrong with the core control systems.Åh

ÅgWell, weÅfre probably not gonna get any more explanations from these scrap heaps.Åh Ada sighed. ÅgI donÅft want to live the rest of my life here, either. Is there some way to get off this rock?Åh

ÅgMaybe.Åh The map came up again, this time on a smaller scale, with a location highlighted. ÅgA ship crashed nearby three hundred and sixty years after your stasis, just a few hundred kilometers away. If weÅfre lucky, it might still be salvageable.Åh

ÅgWell, what are we waiting for, then? LetÅfs go.Åh

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

ÅgWow,Åh Ada marvelled at the visual feed on the screen as she walked beside the half-buried behemoth.

The hull was a hundred and forty meters from bow to stern, its smooth contour broken up by sensor arrays and point defense clusters. The dark grey hullplates were marked with dull, paler patches, where repair bots had grafted in fresh armor over hull breaches. Even scarred and disfigured as she was, she was still... beautiful.

ÅgIs she still spaceworthy?Åh

ÅgTo a degree.Åh A new holographic image flashed in front of Ada - a diagram of the ship in question, its large blue body marked with patches of blood red. ÅgWe can leave the system fine, but our voyages will be long ones.Åh

ÅgWhy?Åh

Sophia frowned again. ÅgWormhole transversalÅfs shot. I hope you donÅft find the thought of walking around at 2000 c objectionable.Åh 

ÅgOh.Åh Ada found herself examining the ship display in detail, despite the fact that she didnÅft actually understand most of it. ÅgIs there any way we could fix it?Åh

ÅgNot with the tech we have, no.Åh Sophia tilted her head, a thoughtful look on her face. ÅgAlthough... if we could get some parts and shop time in one of the old ship depots, repairs would be fairly uncomplicated. My records show thereÅfs one a couple dozen LY away... although anything could have happened between then and now.Åh

ÅgWell, only one way to find out,Åh Ada said, looking thoughtfully at the ship.

TheyÅfd walked completely around the ship a few times, and Sophia had done the necessary calculations for excavating it. Ada watched as the small group of construction bots that had accompanied them here began to work, digging out the dust and rock and assembling a crane.

ÅgDoes she have a name?Åh Ada asked after a while.

ÅgIf it did, itÅfs probably forgotten by now,Åh Sophia answered. ÅgThe AI core didnÅft survive the crash.Åh

ÅgMmm.Åh She steepled her fingers. ÅgI suppose that means we get to rechristen it. Got any ideas?Åh

Sophia smiled. ÅgItÅfs your ship, isnÅft it? You should decide the name.Åh

Ada rested her head on her hands for a while, then nodded. ÅgShe shall be... the [i]Shadow of Eden[/i].Åh