"HAH! Who''s your boss now?!" Ada couldn''t help but shout truimphantly at the viewport as the cowering, leaderless remains of the last barbarian clan fell all over themselves to prostate themselves before her. Well, tried to anyway. Many of them lacked the limbs to properly prostrate with, not all of which had been built that way.

"You appear to be enjoying this to an excessive degree, friend Ada," Sophia said evenly. "I believe we may be seeing early onset victory disease."

"Oh, shush. Don''t ruin my moment." She waved a hand at the haphazardly assembled robots before them. "Look at them. They practically think I''m their god now."

Sophia considered a dramatic eye roll, but decided against it. "Well, I do suppose there''s little to find fault with in your immediate martial accomplishments." A sort-of-half-grin. "And you do seem to have amassed yourself quite the barbarian army. You''re a veritable Attila the Hun now."

Blink. "Who''s Attila? And what''s a Hun?"

Brief consideration of options, followed by a weary sigh. "Never mind. In any case, Ada, what will you do now?"

Bared fangs. "Isn''t it obvious? We march on the Throne World with our new army, and raze anything that gets in our way. Blow open this whole cult once and for all."

"That''s rather..." Sophia cast her partner a sideways glance. "I apologize for not properly considering the prospect beforehand, but while I realize we have our disagreements with the current rulership, but a former auxiliary leading a barbarian army to sack the capital world is... unprecedented."

"It''s also necessary," Ada countered. "You saw it on Apokia II and on Tryphon. Hell, you pretty much said it back on Antikythera. The Empire we once knew and proudly served has been warped into something sick and twisted. It''s turned into a damned personality cult of the worst kind that demands tribute without protection, loyalty without justice, honor without dignity."

She sat up straight in her chair, staring at the orange sun as it began to sink behind a mountain. "This isn''t about some detective story or revenge for the Empire trying to kill us any more. This is about the millions of people out there in the Imperial realms, who deserve a ruler and a land they can be proud of - or to leave it, if they so choose. And if it turns out they''re all gone, that we''re the only ones left... then I say it falls on our shoulders as citizens to set right what we see wrong. And that means we''re going to the Throne world and getting some answers from the Emperor, even if it means ripping them from his dessicated corpse."

Their eyes met - real copper, virtual quartz. "You''ve been with me since I joined the Imperial armed forces, Sophia, and this is the greatest duty we''ve faced yet. Will you join me in this task?"

Even for an AI, Sophia was a philosophical sort, not normally given to being moved rousing speeches. But there are many forms of pathos, and while loyalty to a concept, an ideal, an institution can be a powerful thing, rarely does it ever compare to one''s friends and companions.

"Of course, friend Ada," - and this time, there was no ambiguity whatsoever about that smile.