"Damn it."

Too fatigued to put any real force into the curse, Ada just slumped back in the command seat, staring wearily at the remains of what had once been a command unit.

"You are upset, friend Ada."

"Athenion''s dead, Sophia. He''s dead because I wasn''t good enough. Perhaps if I''d been faster, or if I''d planned my disposition more carefully, or..."

"It can''t be helped now, Ada," Sophia said slowly. "All we can do is pick up the pieces and move on to our next goal."

Ada turned to glare at her AI aide, eyes hard as flint. "Can''t be helped? Is that what you''re going to tell these people, who''ve just lost their leader and most of their defense force because they believed in our reputation? A reputation we couldn''t uphold?"

"I would not phrase it in that manner, no."

"Then shut up."

The human captain turned away sullenly, resting her face in her hands for a few moments, then sighed. "Sorry, Sophia. I shouldn''t be taking my guilt out on you like this."

"No, it''s alright," Sophia said evenly. "Providing catharsis is one of my functions, after all."

"Whatever I''m paying you, it isn''t enough." Ada smiled softly, for a single, fleeting moment. "But in any case, the issue remains. What do we do about these people?" Ada glanced the strategic display, showing the scattered remnants of the Guard force being systematically hunted down and destroyed by her forces, having been abandoned by their commander and the [i]Cornelia[/i]. "Will they be able to hold off another Imperial attack, or barbarian invasion?"

"I do not have sufficient data to determine that."

Despite herself, Ada snickered. "If you were a human, you''d be saying ''we have to have hope'' or something silly like that. Maybe even suggest prayer."

Sophia shook her head. "I am not programmed to make such value judgements. I can only assess known probabilities."

"You''re no fun at all, Sophs. But I guess that''s actually one of your good points." Another brief smile. "Anyway, how about spending a few days helping to shore up the defenses here? We could even use the [i]Eden[/i]''s drones to put together a few orbital platforms."

"That would work, yes." Sophia''s face was thoughtful. "However, I have obtained some information from our Tryphon allies that will effectively solve the problem in the long term."

Ada perked up instantly. "Really? What is it?"

"I''ve pulled some files from our Tryphon allies concerning the barbarians operating in the Trajan Sector. It appears a number of different tribes are all moving into the sector, and the Empire is focused on protecting the Shell and the Core Worlds, leaving the periphery to fend for itself. They had to step on Tryphon when seceded after getting no help from the Imperial legions, though, or the colonies the Empire still holds might decide that it''s every system for itself." The sour look on Sophia''s face communicated her opinion on this policy clearly. "Anyway, I''ve cross-referenced this information with the profiles of the known barbarian tribes from the Antikythera database, and I think we have an opportunity to secure the sector from further pillaging while advancing our goals at the same time."

"Interesting." Ada cocked her head. "And just how do we pull that off?"

"Simple. The barbarians won''t be attacking any of the colonies out here," Sophia clasped her hands together, "because we''ll be the ones leading them."