The Reaper was doomed.

Ada saw the Black Dawn appear screaming over the ridge as the tank frantically attempted to flee the battlefield. She watched in silence as it tried to bring its guns to bear on the airborne threat, hoping for the slight chance to blow away its attacker with its heavy plasma cannons in time.

It never got that chance. The Black Dawn spat a volley of rockets that streaked out, lashing its prey with hellfire. Three of the warheads struck within a meter of each other, and the Reaper exploded in a burst of flame as its onboard reactor went up.

"The [i]Cornelia[/i] has already withdrawn from orbit," Athenion said over her comm. "I don''t think they''ll be coming back for a while... and it''s thanks to you."

"You''re welcome. Mind telling me what''s going on in the Trajan Sector? I haven''t been in the Empire in a long time."

"The usual, only more so," the rebel leader said grimly. "The Fringe Worlds have always seen a large number of armed bands and rogue planet-states, of course. Recently, however, the barbarian incursions into Imperial space have intensified severalfold. No less than five worlds have already been sacked, and many more been raided with much loss of sentience."

He waved a mechanical arm at the rolling landscape, now pocked with craters and the husks of destroyed war machines. "Tryphon was hit twice. What remains of the Empire''s legions were too busy awaiting the reawakening of their god-king to care about us out here. When we saw that our survival meant nothing to the Empire any longer, we knew that our world would only survive if we fought for it ourselves."

"So your declared your independence... and suddenly the Praetorian Guard decided that events in the Fringe concerned it directly."

"Cursed autocrats." It seemed that, had Athenion been a flesh-and-blood human, he would have spat. "If they''d allowed those they''d abandoned to go their own way, other worlds in the Fringe and even the Shell might have decided that they, too, were on their own. And then upon whom would the Throne levy tribute?"

Ada harumphed. "If I have my way, tribute is going to be the least of the Empire''s concerns. Will your people be able to hold out once we depart?"

"Yes. We took serious losses in the battle, but we have gained something better - reputation." Athenion smiled. "One way or another, word will cross the stars that this planet, along with the Brigand - nay, the Warlord of Tsiolkovsky''s Star, stood off the Guard itself. Any mere barbarian chieftain will want to keep their distance after that feat of arms."

"You''re a legend now, Ada," Sophia commented. "Isn''t that wonderful?"

"Shush." Ada gave her aide a sidelong glance before turning back to the rebel leader turned planetary governor. "Very well, Athenion. With your leave, we shall clean up here and begin preparations for our departure."

"As you say, Lady Ada," Athenion said, bowing gracefully. "If I may, however, you should take a few days to explore our planet. Our cities are still splendid, damaged as they are, and the citizens will be eager to see you."

"Be glad to," Ada answered pleasantly.

With that, Athenion turned away to examine some wreckage, his avatar vanishing from her viewscreen. Ada glanced over at Sophia, who was... smirking?

"While you were thinking of our upcoming sightseeing trip," Sophia said before Ada could ask, "I was processing the information Athenion supplied us with. Specifically, the sections concerning the recent swell in barbarian activity."

"Ah." Ada tilted her head. "And what did your three-hundred teraHertz mind glean from this treasure trove of information, friend Sophia?"

"If I were to begin discussing the specifics now, you would just fall asleep on me," Sophia said. "Suffice to say, however, that these roaming hordes could prove to be of greater direct value to us than previously anticipated."

"How so?"

"Initially, I had planned to follow the route of the main barbarian advance into Imperial territory, allowing them to do the brunt of the fighting and avoiding contact with both Imperial and barbarian forces wherever possible. As I reviewed my information on the Horde, however, I noted certain characteristics of their culture, and a second possibility occured to me."

She smiled at Ada. Grinned, even.

"How would you like to command your own barbarian army, Lady Ada?"