The fog thickened and settled, shrouding the island in a cloak of white. Steam hissed and fizzled where the droplets met Ada''s gun barrel, but she paid no heed to it, sensors straining in a lookout for any stragglers. A single Pyro emerged from over a hill two hundred and thirty meters away for a second, and she placed a high-powered particle beam right between its eyes. The wreck fell back into the mists, its face caved in.

"The [i]Mātariśvan[/i] is leaving orbit," Sophia said. "It would seem the Promethean has escaped us yet again, friend Ada."

"I shouldn''t have expected any better." She exhaled sharply. "Field of honor, my ass. What about the Planetwars facilities?"

"Mostly intact. Interestingly, there appear to be some data packets left behind in the local network''s databanks. Would you like to examine them?"

"Alright, but keep a close watch." She stroked her chin. "Think the Promethean left some clues for us to follow him, like some comic villian? Heh, that''d be the day." She sent a few commands through the neural link, wondering what they could contain...

The cockpit abruptly went pitch black, and Ada jerked upright. She started to reach for the console, to call out to Sophia, but her arms, her vocal cords were paralysed as the horrible images flooded her mind.

A silhoutte of a man, in a cage, on his knees. Another such figure, dragging a ball and chain as he walked. Others in the field, burning in the sun as they worked the crops. A fleeing man shot in the back, another dangling from a rope. Light and shadow, flashing, as a tormented scream came from somewhere.

She smelt the fetid odor of captives in the cramped hold of a ship, felt the stinging pain of the lash on her back. A woman''s terrified cries rang in her ears, then the wailing of an infant, and then-

"Ada? Ada!"

She nearly fell out of her chair, eyes wide open, gasping for air. Cold sweat trickled down her neck and forehead, and she groped uneasily for the armrest as the lights came back on. "Sophia... what happened?"

"Worm attack. I managed to contain most of it, but... are you alright, friend Ada?"

"Yeah. I think."

"Thank goodness." The AI''s avatar shook her head. "I''m sorry, Ada. I should have anticipated something like this might happen, and prepared accordingly. My carelessness put you at risk." A brief pause. "What was the message?"

"It... it was nothing. Just a bunch of sense inputs, and..." She sighed. "Never mind. Maybe we''ll talk about it later."

Outside, the fog dispersed with the wind just as it had come with it, revealing the hills strewn with rubble and debris. The midday sun shone above through a cloudless sky, and Ada Caedmon tried to stifle a gnawing sence of uncertainty as she looked up at it.