It was already last light when Ada walked over to the edge of the valley, peering at the scene below. Even under the dim light of the double half moon, she could easily see her handiwork below, staring sullenly back at her.

"Ada?" a voice drifted at the edge of her consciousness, almost unheard. "Ada, you..." A brief pause here, as if her aide and old friend felt some of the doubt within her right now. "This isn''t the first time you''ve done something like this."

"I know," she said slowly. "I know. But never," she waved an arm at the scene, "like this."

The wreckage covered the valley floor, piled knee deep in twos and threes in some parts. What few acres of ground not buried beneath the rubble was often burnt and cratered. A good portion of it was still smouldering. Even if few if any of those bodies had once housed sapient intelligences, the level of destruction here...

"Hopped up on adrenaline as I was," Ada went on, "I didn''t feel anything except the implacable will to smash the enemy before us. But now that the battle''s over and the dust has settled..."

She let out a long sigh. "Is this what it''s like? To be she who fights monsters?"

"You know the reason we did this, friend Ada," Sophia put in. "And that if we succeed, we need never face this scene again."

"Yeah. I got that. It''s just... it seemed so much simpler when it was an abstract problem. Or when I was filled with the righteous fury of one wronged by an oppressive power."

She stared out the cockpit for a few more seconds, then took a deep breath. "Enough. You don''t need to see me wallowing in guilt like this." A brief smile. "How are the preparations coming along?"

"Hansel and Gretel are assembling the ships right now. I''ve sent Khan and Billy the Kid to clean up the holdouts on the planet. Lupin''s still working on the outer defense network."

"You sent Khan out?" Ada didn''t know whether to laugh or scowl. "We don''t need to burn half the planet down, Sophia. The other half, as it is."

"Do not worry, friend Ada. I made it abundantly clear to him what the penalty would be for indiscriminate destruction and massacres. With Billy riding herd on him, he''ll behave."

"That''s a relief. How long till we can move again?"

"Three days to release the existing fleet from storage. Call it a week more to assemble a sufficient number of additional ships." Sophia brought up a map of the Core Sector, standing fleets and movement routes marked in clear detail. "Based on our most recently captured information, I estimate it will take twice as long as that for the response forces to gather sufficient strength to even attempt retaking the system. It is more likely that they will redeploy to cover the Throne, but we should nevertheless be left with an ample window to seize it without a protracted siege."

"An opportunity for a few good hours of rest, then." Ada leaned forward, sitting on the edge of her seat, starting wistfully out at the starry sky for a minute.

"Thank you Sophia," she finally said, turning back to her AI advisor. "Please keep minding the farm for me, if you don''t mind. I''d like some time alone to mourn."