"Valhallan dropship has exited the Zelda system."

Back in the old days, the event might have been met with much cheering and fanfare from the gathered crowd. Now, though, there was only silent satisfaction as Ada looked out at the scene before her.

The settlement was saved. Much of it lay in smouldering ruins and the ground was still littered with the corpses of destroyed robots, resting in pools of melted snow, but the skies were clear and the threat was over now.

The villagers were huddled in a circle around her, afraid to approach any closer. "Well, look at that," Ada said wryly. "They seem to have discovered reverence, or something approaching it."

"They are unused to outsiders, and probably never seen a command unit in person," Sophia said. "More to the point, we just blunted an attack by the most feared band of raiders in the galaxy."

One of them, perhaps a little braver than the rest, spoke up, and Ada noted with some amusement that it was the old man from before. "Thank you for rescuing us" said the colonist, looking suitably abashed. "Now that you have what you seek, will you leave us in peace, to rebuild our homes?"

Ada glanced over at the other holographic image in her view. "Well, Sophia?"

"It is as he says. There may be more clues in the planet's other dig sites, but we can delegate the task to a detachment of low-level intelligences. As for the settlement, the Valhallans no longer have any interest in it, and it is unlikely that anyone else will target them in the forseeable future." She paused briefly, her circuits spinning. "I cannot say this is sustainable in the long run, however. Under the current state of affairs, it is a statistical inevitability that someone will eventually find even an isolated colony like this one and attempt to rob, seize or destroy it. That someone like us was present at the right time to fend off Valhalla was already a far greater coincidence than they have a right to count on. Twice in a row would be simply unthinkable."

"All the more reason to hurry up and fix the galaxy, then. Once we're back on the [i]Eden[/i], we can-"

"Wait," a voice cut in, as a single Glaive emerged from the crowd.

The newcomer's face on the volumetric display was that of an elf, ears peeking out from long golden locks that ran down to her shoulders. "Um... Miss Ada Caedmon, was it?" she said, nervously.

"Just Ada is fine. Is there anything I can help you with?"

"My name is Alfa," the elf said. "I'm an upload, like the others here." Her gaze was downcast for a few moments. "Is what they're saying true? That you're looking for the Central Consciousness, I mean."

Ada nodded. "Now that we know what the Valhallans want it for, we can't let them have it. We need to locate the C-Con before they do."

"Let me come with you. I can help you find it."

"What?" Ada was unable to keep the surprise out of her voice or her face.

"Is that so?" Sophia said in a perfectly neutral tone.

Alfa nodded vigorously. "I've spent the last thousand years trying to trace its location. That's why I've been living here on Edda, actually. I think I can help you."

"Are you sure about that?" Ada asked. Glancing sidewards: "Sophia?"

"Give me a sample of your findings and hypotheses," the AI said to Alfa. "I'll see if I can corroborate it with what I have."

The elf nodded, and there was a brief silence as Sophia received and parsed the information, pulses of light zipping through intricate optical connections far faster than any organic neuron. Gigabytes of information were analyzed and compared in just a handful of seconds, and then Sophia cocked her head. "It is mostly in accord with the data pulled from the Imperial banks. There are a number of discrepancies, such as the question of-"

"Sophia!" Ada threw her hands up. "Just tell me whether we can trust her or not."

Another brief pause, imperceptible to anyone who was not used to conversing with a superhuman AI. "Yes," Sophia said slowly. "Yes, I think we can."

Ada turned back to the mysterious elf (it was always rather strange thinking of synthetics as being their avatars, but she found it helped her get along with them better), who was fidgeting. "Well, your story seems to check out." Frowning a little, she went on: "But are you sure you want to come with us? It'll be quite dangerous; me and Sophia here," she jerked a thumb at the floating head nearby, "are practically at war with the entire galaxy."

"If we live in perpetual fear of death, we live not at all," Alfa answered earnestly. "Besides, in this age, nowhere in the galaxy is truly safe. We saw that today."

[i]You're a sharp one,[/i] Ada thought, nodding approvingly. "That's... very well put. But what about your village?" She looked over the crowd still gathered around, feeling the uncertainty on their expressionless surfaces.

Alfa shook her head. "I've been on Edda for too long already. There is nothing left for me here."

"You appear to be quite interested in the C-Con as well," Sophia said.

The elf looked away, biting her lip. "I... my mother was in the C-Con. I haven't seen her in a long time, and, well... I've been looking for her ever since the Fall."

[i]Mother?[/i]

The simple word sent memories flashing past: an archaeologist, carefully digging out homes from thousands of years in the past while her daughter watched. Hiking trips together through the forest preserves, the school swimming event, teary eyes at the Academy graduation. A bowl of warm mushroom soup for a childhood illness, the rich scent still as familiar as ever...

[i]No, not now.[/i] She forced the thoughts out of her mind.

Alfa was looking wistfully at her, pale blue eyes shimmering like the clear sky. "I know I'm imposing on you, and you've already helped us more than we deserve... but could I go to the C-Con with you? Please?"

Ada met her gaze briefly, then turned to Sophia with the unspoken question. The AI nodded, equally silent.

"In that case," Ada said, turning back to the elf with a smile on her face, "I think we can give it a shot. Welcome aboard, Alfa."

