It was dark in the tomb. Dark, chilly, and disturbingly quiet. She couldn''t decide if total silence would have been preferable to the rhythmatic clanks of her robotic bodyguards.

Still, their presence was a welcome comfort. The air was dust-free, and the only sign of the searchlights they carried were the bright circles they made on the walls and floors as they walked deeper and deeper into the tomb.

Ada Caedmon, formerly of the 13th Imperial Auxiliary Cohort, stroked the thigh holster where her sidearm - a standard issue M10 laser pistol - was sealed. It was an irrational thought, given that she was a merely competent but hardly exceptional shooter and could scarcely add anything to her escorts'' heavy beam rifles with underbarrel multi-grenade launcher attachments, but a comforting one nevertheless.

"You''re coming up on the last door now, Ada." Sophia''s voice was crisp in her ear, thanks to the breadcrumb trail of security bots she''d left behind her. In light of whose tomb she was... not quite breaking and entering into, but close enough from the point of view of the builders and owners, it only made sense to bring a large escort and secure an escape route. More than that, having Sophia watching her back was always a comfort.

"I see it. Damn, it''s huge. Can you get it open?"

"One moment... There. Open sesame."

The double doors slid open with a low groan, and a cold blue light - dim by any absolute standard, but near-blinding after so much darkness, and Ada raised a hand momentarily to block it. Then, as the chamber fully opened, something gripped her. She stepped forward, pushing past the bot walking in front of her, and led the way into the crypt.

It was nothing short of cavernous, walls adorned with the emblems from across the Empire''s reaches rising fifteen metres into the air to hold up a huge domed ceiling. Overhead lamps, activated by the entry into the heart of the tomb, filled the chamber with a subtle ambience. At the center, half a dozen spotlights focused on it, lay a shining capsule, tilted at a forty-five degree angle towards the entrance.

Tentatively she walked slowly forward, her eyes riveted on the object, not even noticing the guards fanning out to cover her. The circular floor was but twenty meters across, yet it felt like it took forever to cross. She could feel each step, each tensing of her muscles as the capsule drew her inexorably closer...

Finally reaching the object, she looked down into it... and suppressed a shudder. For all that the low temperature and modern nanotech-based preservation methods had kept him alive, the man within was clearly dead and had been so for a long time. She reached out slowly to touch the cold crystoplast, still staring at the bare figure within. Once the last Emperor of man, now just a corpse indistinguishable from any other on ice.

"Ada?"

She didn''t know how long she''d been there, gazing at the coffin, when Sophia''s voice rang in her ear. Shaking her head, she stepped back from the capsule, eyes still locked on it.

"I think we''ve seen enough, Sophia. Get the bots to scour the rest of this tomb. I still have a decision to make."

Turning on her heels, she walked away from the long-dead Emperor. And for all the urge she felt to do it, she did not look back.