=== Disorder: A Dead God ===
Ada decides that the feral Disorder are a threat to galactic peace, and moves to investigate their origins. She engages them in a number of battles, including defending an independent settlement from them and a three-way fight that includes the chickens.

Eventually Ada finds the Disorder's most guarded site: a shrine erected to house a manned commander unit, formerly of the Liberated Humanity, whose pilot has long since died. Taking control of the shrine, she can use the commander to shut down all the Disorder, enslave them, or restore them to sapience.

=== Dynasty: The Overmen ===
While scouting out Dynasty territory, Ada encounters the Biovizier, who persuades her to turn over a blood sample to resurrect humanity with.

Unfortunately, the new humans turn out to be horribly mutated monstrosities, the product of millenia of unconstrained genetic modification. They wish to conquer the galaxy for themselves, and Ada, realizing her mistake, fights her way out of the Dynasty base and escapes.

Intent on stopping their plans, Ada goes after them, fighting them in a series of difficult battles. At one point, she even has the option to release a swarm of chickens from a research facility and use them to overrun the Dynasty defenders. Finally, she is able to defeat the mutants and take control of their genetic banks. She then has to choose between retaining the banks with the purpose of eventually recreating humanity proper, or destroying it for good.

=== Cybernetics: Ascendancy ===
Searching for the Central Consciousness, Ada finds a settlement of isolated uploads that wish to be left alone and want nothing to do with her. However, Valhalla arrives and attempts to seize a data core which contains clues to the location of the C-Con, which they believe to be a source of einherjar for their cause. Ada stops them from laying waste to the settlement in the process. One of them, a young woman named Alfa, offers to go with them and help locate the C-Con.

Ada, Sophia and Alfa follow a number of leads to the C-Con, but find it to be in ruins. However, they track down the home of the Valhallans, and after defeating them in battle can decide to seal them away for good, or destroy them outright. Subsequently, Ada can elect to use their facilities to become an upload herself, or to destroy them and prevent anyone else from doing so.

=== Empire: Glory of the Past ===
Finding records that indicates the human Emperor is still alive somewhere in the depths of Imperial space, Ada goes to investigate. She is however accosted by the Imperial commander, who demands that she submit to Imperial justice, and attacks when she refuses. He continues to harass her as she scopes out the Empire's territory, looking for clues as to the true nature of the Emperor's condition. Along the way, she gains the assistance of a splinter faction of Imperials and various rebel groups chafing under the Imperial yoke.

With her allies, Ada storms the throne world and unlocks the great vault housing the Emperor, only to find a long-deceased corpse. Now in control of the Empire, she can take the throne herself, dissolve the Imperial system and leave them to fend for themselves, or simply kill them off.

=== Machines: Insurrection ===