ÅgTalk to me, Goose.Åh

Lieutenant CaedmonÅfs hands shook as she gripped the armrests on her command chair. What had began as simple, even boring guard duty on one of the EmpireÅfs backwater worlds was very quickly turning into something over her pay grade.

ÅgTheir lead elements are almost on top of us, Commander,Åh the AI said, in a tone normally associated with fancy restaurant waiters. ÅgHeavy tank column is another twelve minutes out.Åh

ÅgAnd their cloakybots?Åh

ÅgBased on the direction in which our supply lines are being cut, Commander, IÅfd say theyÅfre about to finish encircling us.Åh

ÅgGreat.Åh She pulled her right fingers into a clenched fist. ÅgAnd youÅfre sure theyÅfre with the coup? Not the Dynasty or the Libbies?Åh

ÅgFive nines, maÅfam. At a guess, theyÅfre plowing through us on the way to New Warsaw.Åh

[i]Oh, joy.[/i] She put her face in her hands. [i]And to think I just graduated a year ago. Just how did I manage to get myself into this mess, anyway? IÅfm only a lieuten-[/i]

ÅgCommander, theyÅfre here!Åh a Glaive frantically cut in, jerking her from her morose thoughts. ÅgLight vehicles barreling down both passes, ETA two minutes!Åh

Gritting her teeth, Caedmon took a moment to curse that bastard Major Aethelred and the sweeping political changes that had given him his (entirely undeserved, in her opinion) rank. SheÅfd warned him, told him the defenses were too concentrated to provide adequate coverage of even the fraction of the planetÅfs surface they were supposed to hold. But of course he wasnÅft going to meet any recommendations by a mere mutant, especially one three whole grades below him, with anything other than snide dismissal, was he? Goddamn more-blessed-than-thou purebreds...

Okay. Deep breath. ÅgRecommendation, Goose?Åh

ÅgThe valley to the east is still effectively open, Commander.Åh Popping the tactical display up on the holo-screen, he highlighted the winding pass, blood red lines constricting on it. ÅgWith our current defenses, we should be able to stall their advance more than long enough to reach Extraction Point Oscar safely, as long as we move quickly.Åh

Her jaw tightened. ÅgI donÅft like running away while someone else dies covering my ass.Åh

ÅgHow do you feel about dying uselessly, maÅfam?Åh

[i]Smartass.[/i] ÅgFine.Åh

Her thoughts flowed into the machine, and massive command unit came alive with a loud whirr, flexing its actuators. Hot plasma boiled and expanded in the onboard microfusion reactor, energy flowing to motors, sensors and the mechÅfs lethal energy weapons, glowing with contained fury.

ÅgLetÅfs go.Åh